Title: Auckland
Date: 2009-01-28 02:14
Author: marcaurele
Tags: traveling, new-zealand
Slug: auckland

After Thailand, it was time to come to New-Zealand. I didn't think first
that it will be so long to fly there but it took a couple of hours,
something around 10 hours. I made it through the Bio Security check with
my dry food and my camping gears. They checked them, but I got
everything back :-)

[![Auckland by night](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/New-Zealand/Auckland/2008-12-25-20h35m09.JPG_w480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/New-Zealand/Auckland/2008-12-25-20h35m09.JPG.php)

I looked around to find my van, first at the backpackers market, which
sucks because it's really expensive and there is nothing you want to
drive. The vehicles didn't look good. I looked on the web but the deal
came from a guy, the owner of the backpackers where I was staying knew,
who was helping travelers like me to get one, and to fix the interior if
needed. So I bought finally Mitsubishi L300 long van, to fit the little
family visiting me for 3 weeks. He helped to buy the materials to make
the bed, curtains... and we did everything at his place with his tools,
really nice from him! Otherwise I don't really know how I would have
fixed everything. I'll take some shots of the inside one day, I promise.

[![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/New-Zealand/Auckland/2008-12-26-10h00m02.JPG_w480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/New-Zealand/Auckland/2008-12-26-10h00m02.JPG.php)

On the life side of Auckland I could enjoy the Christmas eve parties
thanks to some girls at the backpackers who knew a kiwi guy in Auckland,
with who we went out. Lots of fun and drinks of course, for a different
Christmas eve night.  

[![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/New-Zealand/Auckland/2008-12-24-20h52m51.JPG_h480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/New-Zealand/Auckland/2008-12-24-20h52m51.JPG.php)

[![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/New-Zealand/Auckland/2008-12-24-22h30m55.JPG_w480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/New-Zealand/Auckland/2008-12-24-22h30m55.JPG.php)

And for Christmas day, Cambell, the owner of Verandhas, organized a big
BBQ for the people staying at the hostel, and his friends/family. So we
ended up being a big table outside on sunny day. It was actually strange
to think it was Christmas... you shouldn't be outside. It should be
cold, with a lot of snow... Though it's really nice to enjoy a summer
day for Christmas, and it's so much better to have a BBQ than the
turkey! I will remember this special Christmas day for sure and I hope I
will be able to do another one during a summer time!

Grill number 1  

[![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/New-Zealand/Auckland/2008-12-25-12h32m18.JPG_w480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/New-Zealand/Auckland/2008-12-25-12h32m18.JPG.php)

Grill number 2  

[![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/New-Zealand/Auckland/2008-12-25-12h32m24.JPG_w480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/New-Zealand/Auckland/2008-12-25-12h32m24.JPG.php)

The big table  

[![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/New-Zealand/Auckland/2008-12-25-12h32m34.JPG_w480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/New-Zealand/Auckland/2008-12-25-12h32m34.JPG.php)

Yes we had a lot of food!

The Verandhas backpacker is really situated at a good location, close to
the center and to the restaurant/caf√© street. And well I had to cook
also when I came there, thing that I haven't done since the last 3
months between Nepa & Thailand. How does it work again? How do you cook
pasta? Yes, first going to the supermarket might be a good idea! Cheese
cheese !!! I bought a piece of 1 kilo of cheese when I saw some, so
good! And milk as well. Then this was done, I came to the routine of
making my food and nice sandwiches for lunch. I also rented a bike since
my legs started to be ticklish when I saw rentals in Auckland. That was
a great way to discover Auckland and to get lost in the city. It's not
flat, but it's not like Lausanne neither, in the middle.

And then my sister, brother-in-law Tijn, and their baby Louis arrived on
Christmas day, so after the van was done, with a lot of delay than
initially planned, we went to the North to see friends.

[![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/New-Zealand/Auckland/2008-12-27-17h10m04.JPG_w480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/New-Zealand/Auckland/2008-12-27-17h10m04.JPG.php)

That was a good start for New-Zealand... And now let's be on the road
like a gypsy in my van to visit this fantastic outdoor country!
