Title: Seakayaking in Abel Tasman National Park
Date: 2009-02-22 22:13
Author: marcaurele
Tags: kayak, new-zealand
Slug: seakayaking-in-abel-tasman-national-park

[![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/New-Zealand/Abel%20Tasman%20National%20Park/2009-01-18-14h13m16.JPG_w480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/New-Zealand/%20Abel%20Tasman%20National%20Park/2009-01-18-14h13m16.JPG.php)  

Don’t be spoiled by this picture, it’s been really 3 hard days for me to
paddle on the Abel Tasman coast. The weather was really bad, strong
wind, rain, huge waves, we almost had to call in... And to paddle, I was
way too weak compared to the other ones. :-) Just kidding of course! It
was the complete opposite. A dream sea kayak trip!

After giving a couple of phone calls and even going to the i-Site center
in Nelson to try to hire a solo sea-kayak to make the Abel Tasman
paddling on my own to keep the expenses down I had to resign myself and
went on a guided tour for 3 days for 250 euros to paddle almost all the
coast. You can’t hire a sea kayak as a solo paddler in NZ anymore since
they had too many deaths, it’s a law apparently. Many people own an open
kayak and think they can paddle in rough weather on the sea without
problem in a normal sea kayak... but that’s completely different so,
even as an ex-member of the French kayak team I couldn’t get one. I
tried everything... Sure I could hike instead of doing it with a kayak
but it’s definitively not the same as you can’t see as much as paddling
next to the shore.

So on an early morning, here I am, going on a guided trip... it’s been
ages since I had a guide for an activity, with I don’t know how many
persons, hoping that the guide will be enough nice to give me a single
kayak (still hopping the little guy). It didn’t work since we were an
even number of clients and it was much easier for her to do the safety
in a single one, which I understood. So here I go with another mate in
front of me in the kayak since there was no way I will sit in front and
let another guy steer it. Who is it gonna be? Pretty easy since there
was only 1 single guy in the group with the 2 other couples. Any kayak
experience? None... I’m sitting in the back, no choice for the 1st day
at least.

[![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/New-Zealand/Abel%20Tasman%20National%20Park/2009-01-16-10h24m41.JPG_w480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/New-Zealand/Abel%20Tasman%20National%20Park/2009-01-16-10h24m41.JPG.php)  

We started to load all the kayaks and our gears on a motor boat for the
ride to the most northern point of the trip, since we will paddle only
one way.

[![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/New-Zealand/Abel%20Tasman%20National%20Park/2009-01-16-11h19m22.JPG_w480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/New-Zealand/Abel%20Tasman%20National%20Park/2009-01-16-11h19m22.JPG.php)  

After unloading everything from the taxi boat, well, it was time to load
the kayaks and of course, as the guide could guess that I will be a
propeller, we got more loads than the over ones. But I’m not
complaining, it wasn’t so much harder anyway.

[![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/New-Zealand/Abel%20Tasman%20National%20Park/2009-01-16-12h17m57.JPG_w480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/New-Zealand/Abel%20Tasman%20National%20Park/2009-01-16-12h17m57.JPG.php)  

Now, time to get onto the sea and paddle this beautiful coast with a
happy mate in front of me who can enjoy paddling with his very private
kayak instructor and propeller.  

The paddling was easy and we could enjoy the big blue sky we had. As I
hoped on y guided tour, Genna our guide, gave us the little inside
stories about the different properties on the coast. The funniest one
was one guy who blow up his house with dynamite when he had to return
back the land to the National Park administration since he had to remove
the house.

The highlights of the trip were the seals we could see from really
close, George the dolphin who gave us a little show and entertained us
for a long time, the beaches and the big blue sky. The best way to get a
good overview of the trip is to browse the pictures (link at the end).
Here are some of the nice pictures:

Seal  

[![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/New-Zealand/Abel%20Tasman%20National%20Park/2009-01-16-15h51m36.JPG_w480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/New-Zealand/Abel%20Tasman%20National%20Park/2009-01-16-15h51m36.JPG.php)

George, the dolphin  

[![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/New-Zealand/Abel%20Tasman%20National%20Park/2009-01-16-17h17m31-001.JPG_w480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/New-Zealand/Abel%20Tasman%20National%20Park/2009-01-16-17h17m31-001.JPG.php)

Sunrise at Onetahuti bay  

[![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/New-Zealand/Abel%20Tasman%20National%20Park/2009-01-17-06h16m23.JPG_w480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/New-Zealand/Abel%20Tasman%20National%20Park/2009-01-17-06h16m23.JPG.php)

Lunch break on a beach  

[![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/New-Zealand/Abel%20Tasman%20National%20Park/2009-01-18-14h02m25.JPG_w480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/New-Zealand/Abel%20Tasman%20National%20Park/2009-01-18-14h02m25.JPG.php)

Position, speed, distance with my GPS Suunto X10 watch  

[![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/New-Zealand/Abel%20Tasman%20National%20Park/2009-01-17-10h40m23.JPG_w480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/New-Zealand/Abel%20Tasman%20National%20Park/2009-01-17-10h40m23.JPG.php)

Oh I know, it doesn’t really look like your canteen, but you can always
change of work and become a sea kayak instructor in Abel Tasman ;-)

The good thing about doing it with a sea kayak is that you can take
almost anything you want we you. For the lunch and dinner we had so much
food and even beers and wine! Yes beers and wine included in the price
of the trip. On the second day, for the dinner’s dessert we had a fruit
chocolate fondue. What did you had for dessert today? You’re not the
only ones who are starving ready this, all the people passing next to
our table where looking at us like poor dogs. We made some of them happy
since we couldn’t even finish it and gave it away to another family
camping. You should have seen their eyes when they saw the chocolate
coming!  

The food was delicious for each single meal, worth the price! For one
breakfast we got the full English breakfast with French toasts, bacons,
beans... Maaaan, I couldn’t believe it!

In the same camping we got a rainy afternoon, it wasn’t a perfect
weather for 3 days but it didn’t last that long. And while I was
chilling out I saw a guy putting up his tent and could resist taking a
picture of this poor man who never put up a tent in his life before I
guess. He didn’t stretch the edges of the tent, and started to attach
the side ropes in the tree, all of this with his backpack on, and his
girlfriend in the tent when the poles were in place. A lot of people are
coming to New-Zealand and think they will hike and camp for their first
time as it’s the place to do it. I heard a lots of funny stories from
locals.

Jealous after all of this? I will only say one thing as the sea birds:
baaaaahhhhh  

[![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/New-Zealand/Abel%20Tasman%20National%20Park/2009-01-18-13h44m38.JPG_w480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/New-Zealand/Abel%20Tasman%20National%20Park/2009-01-18-13h44m38.JPG.php)

All the pictures are at the usual place, and here is the direct link to
the album of this amazing trip:
<http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/New-Zealand/Abel%20Tasman%20National%20Park/>

A must do if you’re coming here!
