Title: Kathmandu can be heaven
Date: 2008-10-18 09:24
Author: marcaurele
Tags: festival, food, nepal
Slug: kathmandu-can-be-heaven

Finally I recovered from my 3 days in bed after having a drink with ice
cubes made with bad water. Yesterday we went to The Himalayan Blues
Festival held in the Garden of Dreams (the nicest place you can find in
Kathmandu) 5 minutes from our Hotel. We went there with some friends we
met in Kathmandu, quite early to be sure to enter.  

When you are in the park, you don’t realize that you are in Kathmandu.
It’s completely amazing what they manage to do with this old park. The
restoration took many years and they opened it 2 years ago only. It’s
the place to visit in Kathmandu! Spend an afternoon there to relax and
enjoy life again when you are tired of the busy streets of the city and
(or) your last trek.

</p>

![][]

</p>

The blues festival started 2 days ago, but it was for sure the best
evening in the Garden of Dreams. For us it was more like the Garden of
Heaven. I’ll explain what heaven is when you spent a month in Nepal.
Imagine you’ve been here, eating everyday or almost rice with something
else. You’ve been out in the mountains for weeks, eating either
dehydrated food or [Dal bhat][]. Even if it sounds nice to have Asian
food every day, well after a while you really get tired of it, and you
don’t even know what to choose for lunch or dinner anymore... You are
desperate to get some food that you are used to, something you know you
really like! Then, you hear that there is a blues festival and it will
be held in the nicest park in Kathmandu (because you have already been
there). It sounds already fantastic. You suppose that it will be crowed
but when you arrive there, there aren’t that much people (around 150
during the evening). You walk around to enjoy the park again and finally
settle down on the grass. The sunset comes and finally the lights get on
in the park. On top of that, you add some blues music with really good
groups... And then the welcome drink is coming, guess what it can be in
Nepal??? Any idea... Well some whisky!!! We were astonished.  

After this we had some wine, we couldn’t resist for some Chilean red
wine. More over some snacks from the BBQ. I ordered some chicken and got
beef, but that’s the Nepali style as we say with Gilles (you don’t
understand how they are so so so bad to remember things). And quite late
in the evening when we were really hungry, the buffet opened. And there
it is! The most amazing buffet you can imagine in Nepal, we couldn’t
even dream to have such food here: Tomatoes-Mozzarella, Potatoes
mayonnaise, olives, filets mignon, super good chicken, fish with butter
and lemon, green beans with coconut milk, eggplant with garlic, pasta
cooked on demand with tomatoes sauces, chocolate fudge brownies, apple
pie, fruits... We ate so much, we couldn’t move anymore! We were all in
heaven while eating all of this and listening to the blues with the
glass of wine in one hand.  

Even sick, I would have gone there to eat, no matter that would happen
with my stomach afterward. When the evening ended, we didn’t want to go
back in the streets of Kathmandu. We wished to stay in our little
paradise for the night.

</p>

![][1]

</p>

You can find all the photos in the album [Blues Festival Garden of
Dreams][]

</p>

  []: http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/Nepal/Blues%20Festival%20-%20Garden%20Of%20Dreams/2008-10-17-17h58m33.JPG_w480.jpg
    "Garden of Dreams"
  [Dal bhat]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dahl_baht
  [1]: http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/Nepal/Blues%20Festival%20-%20Garden%20Of%20Dreams/2008-10-17-19h49m20.JPG_w480.jpg
    "Blues Festival"
  [Blues Festival Garden of Dreams]: http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/Nepal/Blues%20Festival%20-%20Garden%20Of%20Dreams/
