Title: The ultimate trekking shoes: Thamel-Rolwaling model
Date: 2008-10-19 10:43
Author: marcaurele
Tags: expedition, trekking, nepal
Slug: the-ultimate-trekking-shoes-thamel-rolwaling-model

During my last trek I discovered one thing at least, the ultimate
trekking shoes anybody must have during a trek. Let me explain why, but
before going any further in this post, please have a look at this video
(in french) to warm you up:  

[Tetes a claques - Le Willi Waller][] or [Tetes a claques - Le LCD
Shovel][]

</p>

![][]

</p>

The “Thamel – Rolwaling” are the shoes, the ultimate shoes, the ultimate
trekking shoes. With them, you will walk up to 5000m (\*eventually
wearing socks, \*\*skip bad weather you never how it could end). And
this, even down to the beach! Shoes that can be used in such an altitude
range, amazing!

</p>

![][1]

</p>

Oh come’on Marco what kind of bullshit are you talking now, are you
going to think. But, that’s not all, they aren’t waterproof, but let you
clean your foots in rivers and dry very quickly while walking. Woaaahh

</p>

![][2]

</p>

Easy to wear, you can wake up in the middle of the night in your tent or
lodge and get out to do the thing which woke you up with no hassle. You
can even add a head-light at night (the light system could cost more
than the shoes!)

</p>

![][3]

</p>

You will never have blisters again (ask Gilles for any explanation on
how to get very very very bad blisters, he’s mastering the subject!)

</p>

![][4]

</p>

You will look super trendy among the locals who are always checking your
shoes (porters can’t look up...) If you have Gilles model, the old
fashion Havaianas flip-flop, you won’t look as much trendy at all, they
know them. The Thamel Rolwaling has only been seen on 1 local person
during our trek! Definitively, it is the last trend in Nepal, major
trekking country. And please, throw away your old dady flip-flop, you
will look like a crappy guy, and they aren’t so robust.

</p>

![][5]

</p>

They are super light and can be easily attached to your backpack  

I’m pretty sure they will last for a long time  

They have an extraordinary grip on wet rocks  

They can change colors (only if taken in white or alike) since they will
turn brown when walking in muddy trails. When you get leeches between
your toes, you let them suck some of your blood and then you squeeze
them with your toes. You will get a wonderful deep red color. Tested &
approved for both colors! Amazing, 3 colors with one pair of shoes!!!
Unbelievable!  

And especially for the sun lover, you will even get a homemade sun
tattoo for free by the end of your holidays (or maybe sooner). The holes
are perfect to get a new suntan (for the moment, no other pattern
available)

</p>

![][6]

</p>

And you will find the Thamel Rolwaling for their original price, at 5
euros in Kathmandu, Thamel area. But for you my friend, only you, and if
you’re ready to order the Thamel Rolwaling right now, I’ll give you a
price of 4 euros. Uuuunnnbelievable!!! And if you are ready to get those
Thamel Rolwaling for your whole family (at least 5 pairs), I’m ready to
give you a crazy price of 3 euros for each pair!!! Amaaaziiingg!

</p>

\* credit card accepted  

\*\* stock limited  

\*\*\* price doesn’t include shipment fees  

;-)

</p>

  [Tetes a claques - Le Willi Waller]: http://www.tetesaclaques.tv/video.php?vid=30
  [Tetes a claques - Le LCD Shovel]: http://www.tetesaclaques.tv/video.php?vid=42
  []: http://shakeyourlife.com/sites/shakeyourlife.com/files/thamel-rolwaling.jpg
  [1]: http://shakeyourlife.com/sites/shakeyourlife.com/files/4840m.jpg
  [2]: http://shakeyourlife.com/sites/shakeyourlife.com/files/water-friendly.jpg
  [3]: http://shakeyourlife.com/sites/shakeyourlife.com/files/with-headlight.jpg
  [4]: http://shakeyourlife.com/sites/shakeyourlife.com/files/blisters.jpg
  [5]: http://shakeyourlife.com/sites/shakeyourlife.com/files/bad-fliflop.jpg
  [6]: http://shakeyourlife.com/sites/shakeyourlife.com/files/sun-tun.jpg
