Title: Water in Kathmandu
Date: 2008-09-25 15:37
Author: marcaurele
Tags: nepal
Slug: water-in-kathmandu

For sure, you can’t drink the water from the tap. And on some of the
water bottle you can find this nice remark about the quality of water:  

Thirst Pi is 100% Natural Spring Mineral Water. Untouched by human
hands, water from the only **In-House Natural Spring Source** in Nepal,
is automatically filled into Food grade, crystal clear Pet Bottles that
are manufactured in our own **In-House, latest, state of the art Pet
bottle making plant**. The water is automatically ozonated and there are
no additives or chemicals used in the process.  

FREE FROM PATHOGENS

</p>

This one is super clean, isn’t it? If they’re writing so much on how
clean it is, I’m wondering what you could find in the water from the
tap...  

By the way, yesterday, it came out brown due to the heavy rain we have
right now... You can really wonder from where the water is coming when
you see something like this.  

It sucks because we have to wait now. There is no point to trek when
it’s raining like that. Gilles went to check for a paper we need and he
traversed streets with water up to his knees, hoping not to lose his
flip-flop in the water streams. And you need to add to the whole picture
the Nepali walking in the water as well, with the buses and cars horning
since everyone is slow... Gilles was laughing in the middle of the
crossing. This mess in the Nepali way was really too much not to laugh
at.

</p>

And today... it’s raining again, and not just a few drops. It’s the end
of the monsoon, an end that I hope will be tomorrow. The other problem
is that the rivers get bigger and it might certainly be snowing in the
mountains. Should have we brought our snowboard this time?

</p>

And last week they were striking because of the government wanted to
stop giving money to a festival for the animal sacrifices which occurs
at the end, and which is costly apparently. After that, all the shops
were closed in Thamel yesterday, again for another strike... To allow
the restaurant to close later. Are we going to have a bus strike when we
will try to leave Kathmandu? I’m going to feel a bit like in France
soon...

</p>

