Title: Ko Phangang
Date: 2008-12-23 12:04
Author: marcaurele
Tags: party, thailand
Slug: ko-phangang

Since I wasn’t going to stay in Khao Lak longer than I had to, I decided
to go back slowly in the direction to Bangkok and to see more islands,
instead of going back to Ko Lanta which I liked a lot. It’s my first
time in Thailand, it’s worth it to spend my time to see most of the
places to enjoy the best ones next time I’m coming. After one day of
traveling with the ticket guy in the local bus who tried to screw me, I
arrived on Ko Phangang to spend there only one night. For once I took
one of the resort proposed by one guy on the ferry to the island since I
didn’t really matter just for one night and it looked nice for a cheap
price. Of course you don’t get at all the nice room on the picture but
at least the beach, the pool and the view. Moreover I’m not spending
time in my room in Thailand, not on this island... One single night on
Phangan, so it’s going to be on the full moon party beach, which I
missed 2 days before, but well, I had to decide between diving and
partying.

Apparently the last full moon party wasn’t so great compared to what you
could get usually from what said a foreigner living there. But still 2
days after there were people partying “easy” on the beach. The beach is
full of bucket bars, for quite cheap compared to Phi-phi, which doesn’t
help the people with a motorbike but we came with a Taxi :-) Drinking,
chatting, dancing... and then sleeping.

I didn’t spend so much time at all on this island, but it doesn’t look
like my favorite one. Next time I would take a bike tour around the
islands to see the beaches. They might be nice somewhere.

[![Hat rin party 4 days after the full moon one](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/Thailand/Ko%20Phangang/2008-12-15-01h23m35.JPG_w480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/Thailand/Ko%20Phangang/2008-12-15-01h23m35.JPG.php)

All the pictures (not so many) on  

<http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/Thailand/Ko%20Phangang/>
