Title: Koh Lanta
Date: 2008-12-02 15:00
Author: marcaurele
Tags: beach, diving, thailand
Slug: koh-lanta

I'm in Thailand since almost 2 weeks and I really like it so far. After
a night bus trip to Krabi, and a mini-bus to Koh Lanta, I finally ended
up on a beach :-) Something I was dreaming since the last cold night at
5800m in Nepal... such a relief! The water is so warm... but now, after
being here for a week, I start to find it a bit chilly sometimes. It's
really easy to get use to the heat.

</p>

So I came to Thailand to go diving, and I went straight to different
diving center on Koh Lanta to find one to do my PADI, the open water.
With Scuba Lanta, I finally ended up doing the advance as well to enjoy
more the different dives I'm planning here. The team is really great and
their teachers as well, and for once on the islands, it's not a swedish
own diving center. It's fun to speak with the instructors or people
working in the diving shops to see how they decided to stay on the
islands. One of my instructor is a french guy, Guillaume, and he's on
Koh Lanta since 7 years... Most of them originally came to Thailand only
for some holidays, and finally called home to say what they would never
be back... In some extent I can understand it. I wish I had more time in
Thailand and in Asia, there's so much to see here, and you don't want to
rush everywhere. The life on Koh Lanta and the parties make me think
about the life you can have in Chamonix (ski resort in France), it's
kind of the same but different ("same same but different" as you would
say here).

</p>

I did 7 dives here on 2 spots Koh Bida and Koh Haa. The marine life is
so colorful and full of life. There're fishes everywhere and the game is
to recognize them afterward, or to find a specific one underwater. My
top list I saw is the leopard shark, sea snakes, groupers, anglefish,
stonefish... I have to remember more names from the fish ID book
tomorrow... And I wish I had a camera with a waterproof box... I saw
pictures from the instructor, Guillaume, and it's amazing the color you
can get. I didn't believe it before I saw his pictures.

</p>

The plan for tomorrow is to go to the famous Hin Dang diving spot and
hopefully to see manta rays... That's a dream to swim around them... And
maybe more leopard shark or whale shark ... One of the best spot in
Thailand! More live news with my GPS messages tomorrow.

</p>

