Title: Similan Islands
Date: 2009-01-02 22:04
Author: marcaurele
Tags: diving, thailand
Slug: similan-islands

After spending dives and dives for the 2 PADI certifications I wanted to
really enjoy some fun dives and boarded for a liveaboard (boat trip) in
the Similan islands marine park for 4 days and 4 nights with SeaDragon.
We dived in the Surin islands, on Richelieu rock, Ko Bhon, Ko Tachai,
Similan islands. The good thing was the after-effect of the Bangkok’s
airport troubles. Since it happened there aren’t as much people as it
should be in Thailand. It’s even a bit empty depending on where you are.
On the boat with beds for 20 clients we were only 12 so we had room :-)  

On the boat it was a mix of German, Dutch, French, Swiss German,
Belgium, Swedish and Thai people. We left the harbor around 10pm to
cruise to the first dive site during the night. The boat had AC cabins
but I didn’t want to sleep in them, and we could be on the deck, soooo
nice! I spent all the night sleeping outside in the marine air with a
360°C of islands & sea sunrise every morning. What could I ask more? And
it wasn’t cold at all, warmer than in the AC cabins, around 28°C, and no
mosquito.  

Each day, the program couldn’t be simpler, wake up at 6.30am, coffee/tea
with dive briefing, dive at 7.30am. When we were done it was time for
breakfast and some rest before the next briefing and dive at 11.30.
Followed by the lunch and some rest/snorkeling/chats. Next dive at
3.30pm with some snacks after, and a night dive at 7.30pm with the diner
when we’re out of the water. Each dive was at another site with either
too many divers like on Richelieu rock (a nightmare) or no one like on
Ko Tachai and some of the best spots of the Similan. Despite the
visibility wasn’t great a few times, we could see many different things.
The highlights of the dives were sharks (black tip, white tip, and
leopard), napoleon, huge sea snakes, octopus, huge barracudas, turtles,
a rare tip of gobies... but still no manta rays.  

Except of the diving, the islands are just amazing. The color of the
water is the one you have in your dreams, and it’s not cold even though
you’re wearing a wetsuit. On Surin island, you can camp in tents or
bungalows, which must be so nice. Imagine to wake up in the morning and
what have you in front of you... A perfect bay, exactly this one  

![][]

And each sunset and sunrise are magic...  

![][1]

This diving trip is really beautiful and I’ll try to do it again next
time I’m going in Thailand.

All the pictures are at this address
<http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/Thailand/KhaoLak%20And%20Similan/>

  []: http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/Thailand/KhaoLak%20And%20Similan/2008-12-10-09h53m24.JPG_h480.jpg
  [1]: http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/Thailand/KhaoLak%20And%20Similan/2008-12-10-18h27m19.JPG_w480.jpg
