Title: Geneva airport or how the hell am I going to bring all my gears
Date: 2008-09-18 14:14
Author: marcaurele
Tags: preparation, switzerland
Slug: geneva-airport-or-how-the-hell-am-i-going-to-bring-all-my-gears

Normally, you’re doing your luggage at least the night before you’re
leaving. Well I had everything on the floor in my living room, but
nothing packed on Saturday morning. I was waiting to get the dry food
which came with Kimberly who was driving me to the airport. The box was
huge, and I had to get all of those food bags somehow in my backpack. I
filled up to the top my backpack but there were still about 10 left. My
backpack was already weighing more than I was allowed on my Easyjet
flight. My hand baggage went up to 18kg, and I had to take a plastic bag
with a few food bags and the only 3 books I could take along with me.  

At the airport, I hopped to have someone understandable for my extra
kilos. The lady at the desk did not even ask me anything about my super
big backpack. She was just asking why I couldn’t pack it smaller since
it didn’t fit in the plastic case for the luggage’s ramp. I just
replied: well you know, if I could, I will have packed it smaller but...

</p>

While I was sitting to wait for the boarding, many people looked at me
and were wondering where I was going. It might be rainy in Geneva, but
we are not in winter time. I had my mountaineering shoes (big yellow
hard boots) on me with my jeans and a fleece, with the huge yellow Peak
Performance down jacket in my hands. I couldn’t wear it even though I
wished. And my ski backpack with my hiking shoes and camping mattress
hanging, fully packed, and with my solar panel and the camera tripod
attached on the side.  

No one said anything before I handed out my flight ticket for boarding.
The lady standing there just looked at me like "where the hell is this
guy going?" She told me that it wouldn’t make it, and that she had to
check in my backpack since it was too big. Another came around and even
said that I have extra stuff attached on the "other" side in addition of
my hanging shoes and mattress... I said that I could easily remove those
items when I put the bag on the overhead compartment but she was still
looking at me like I was mad... I must have looked like if I had planned
all of this, because a few seconds after trying to figure out how she
could do now to check in my bag, she just told me to go and figure out
myself how I’m going to fit this bag in the compartment. The trick here
was that I had under my jacket, the plastic bag and the camera which
they didn’t see... lucky me!  

I went straight to the end of the plane to find room for my backpack and
my "little" other things. I was thinking that it was only the first
flight I’m taking with all those gears on me. How am I supposed to reach
Kathmandu with all my gears (I have 19.3kg of gears waiting for me in
London, at my aunt’s place)?  

While we were getting speed on the runway, I had a thought for Geneva &
Switzerland in general since for once, the next time I will be here
should be in many many many weeks.

</p>

See you guys!

</p>

