Title: Why am I doing this trip
Date: 2008-08-26 21:44
Author: marcaurele
Tags: preparation
Slug: why-am-i-doing-this-trip

That's the usual question you will get when you're leaving for a RWT as
well as your destinations of course ;-) It's not to "find myself",
neither "to look for a new goal in life"... None of these theoretical
ideas. It's just because I think that it's the right time before being
involved too much in my work and also because since my expedition in
Argentina, to the Mercedario, I started to dream again about long ...
long ... long vacations. And also because I wanted to do something big
for special birthday this year...

I want to take time to explore new countries and new cultures/people,
also to do more photography, as well as sports of course. Last year,
when I decided to go for it (definitively) I thought about all the
countries I wish to visit and the time I would like to spend there. I
ended up with a \~30 months trip and I realized it was really too much
(even though some people would say it isn't). I kept the countries I
wanted to visit absolutely and tried to fit them in a 12 months slot.
The first one, and obvious, was Nepal. Just a few weeks after Argentina,
we started to speak with Gilles about our next adventure in the high
mountains. I also thought to go for a 8000 summit, but I found it too
expensive for the result. It will enjoy much more a full year of
different adventures, than just a couple of weeks in the mountains.

Then Thailand, to do all my PADI diving certificates. I've done many
dives, but I never took more than one day during my holidays for that,
so I never did any certification. Since I'm going to spend most of my
time surrounded by the sea, and it won't be always windy as I want ;-),
diving will be a really good alternative, specially in the Pacific
Ocean. With 1 month in Thailand and 2 weeks for diving, I should have my
PADIs and might be bored by living like a fish every day... After that
it will be time to spend some time in the North, to see the other part
of Thailand.

And New-Zealand! Oh yes, I'm so excited to go there to spend (at least)
4.5 months on these islands that everyone told me to be wonderful. I
already have my extended visa to stay longer than 3 months. I need to
send my kitesurf gears to some friends. The plan is to buy a camper-van,
which will be my little home during those months. The latest news is
that I will have the visit of my 9 months old godson with my sister &
her husband for the first 3 weeks, to spend Christmas & New-Year with
them on the beach!!! :-)

From New-Zealand, I didn't plan when I will be leaving. I just know that
I have my RWT flight ticket to go to the next destinations, but I can
change the dates as I want, so ... no stress ! Take time & enjoy!

So stay tuned with my website (and the RSS feed for the geeks who knows
what it is) and don't blame me if you can't work after viewing the
pictures I will put on the website ... it's one of my goal ... to make
you jealous and dream about other places in the world :-)

