Title: Rurutu â€“ Australes island #3 - French Polynesia
Date: 2009-06-10 06:49
Author: marcaurele
Tags: traveling, french polynesia
Slug: rurutu-australes-island-3-french-polynesia

[![][]][]  

I went on Rurutu as it was part of the Australes islands and also to see
where a very good friend used to live for a couple of years. The normal
time to go there is September to November to see the whales. The island
doesn't have a lagoon but just a few "kind of" beaches.  

I spent days biking on the island to take pictures of places my friend
Yvan told me about, to try to find his previous houses, and maybe people
who knew him or his parents as they were teachers.

</p>

The first day wasn't a great one for the bikes. The guest house where I
was staying had another guess for once, so I wasn't alone. First time...
We decided to go biking together with the new bikes the owner had but
the island is very hilly. Moreover the bikes had only back-pedaling
brakes. First when we were quite far from the last village on the east
coast, the brake of my bike got stuck and I couldn't bike anymore. A guy
gave me a ride to the village with the bike on the roof since it didn't
fit in the trunk. I still had to do a couple of kilometers to get to the
guest house. I walked all the way to the main village since there isn't
much traffic on the island and finally when I was exiting it, a guy
passed a second time to give me a ride back to the guest house. He had
to feed the pigs first ;) The other guy with me, also locked his back
wheel with the brakes when he was biking back on another road. The owner
wasn't so glad to see us coming back with broken bikes as it means to
ship spare parts from Tahiti and even to call the bike shops as there
were more new bikes broken.

</p>

Moreai village  

[![][1]][]

</p>

Coast line  

[![][2]][]

</p>

The island is covered of so much natural resources, you can just pick
anything from the side of the road. No one would say anything  

[![][3]][]

</p>

On the second day I went to the other village where Yvan used to live,
to hopefully have a better luck finding the house and people who
remember them. And this time I took an old bike which looked strong,
just to be sure to make it back for my flight. I biked in all the
streets, asked a few people of my age if they knew Yvan but no luck. As
it was time for a lunch I stopped at the only snack available and
started to talk with the people there.  

[![][4]][]

</p>

One hour later one person in the kitchen remembered the name (or heard
it). I was finally happy to have found someone. Without telling me she
called her brother (or brother in law) as he took classes with Yvan's
dad. Two hours later still sitting at the snack enjoying my Rurutu
coffee Antonio came by as he's been told someone who knew Yvan's family
was at the snack. He came with this old picture what Richard took from
his students  

[![][5]][]

</p>

He proposed me to go to his home to see his wife and to show me the
house where Yvan's family used to live.  

[![][6]][]

</p>

I didn't have the time to go around on the island with Antonio to see
where he used to go and play with Yvan but that will be for next time.
And I hope Yvan will make his way one day for some holidays there as
well. The people are so welcoming there in Avera, I loved my 3 hours at
the snack to talk with the locals about my trip, their life on the
island and French Polynesia.

</p>

Avera  

[![][7]][]

</p>

The Australes islands were so great. I loved all of the three I visited,
each in a different way, but most important all the locals are very nice
and it isn't a super touristic destination which give you the chance to
see the local culture.

</p>

More pictures over here:
<http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/French%20Polynesia/Rurutu/>

</p>

  []: http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/French%20Polynesia/Rurutu/2009-05-02-10h18m50.JPG_w480.jpg
  [![][]]: http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/French%20Polynesia/Rurutu/2009-05-02-10h18m50.JPG.php
  [1]: http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/French%20Polynesia/Rurutu/2009-05-02-10h30m21.JPG_w480.jpg
  [![][1]]: http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/French%20Polynesia/Rurutu/2009-05-02-10h30m21.JPG.php
  [2]: http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/French%20Polynesia/Rurutu/2009-05-02-10h58m01.JPG_w480.jpg
  [![][2]]: http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/French%20Polynesia/Rurutu/2009-05-02-10h58m01.JPG.php
  [3]: http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/French%20Polynesia/Rurutu/2009-05-02-11h12m01.JPG_w480.jpg
  [![][3]]: http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/French%20Polynesia/Rurutu/2009-05-02-11h12m01.JPG.php
  [4]: http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/French%20Polynesia/Rurutu/2009-05-03-14h06m36.JPG_w480.jpg
  [![][4]]: http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/French%20Polynesia/Rurutu/2009-05-03-14h06m36.JPG.php
  [5]: http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/French%20Polynesia/Rurutu/2009-05-03-13h05m28.JPG_w480.jpg
  [![][5]]: http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/French%20Polynesia/Rurutu/2009-05-03-13h05m28.JPG.php
  [6]: http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/French%20Polynesia/Rurutu/2009-05-03-13h28m05.JPG_w480.jpg
  [![][6]]: http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/French%20Polynesia/Rurutu/2009-05-03-13h28m05.JPG.php
  [7]: http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/French%20Polynesia/Rurutu/2009-05-03-14h24m24.JPG_w480.jpg
  [![][7]]: http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/French%20Polynesia/Rurutu/2009-05-03-14h24m24.JPG.php
