Title: Fiji week
Date: 2009-04-26 04:45
Author: marcaurele
Tags: kitesurfing, fiji
Slug: fiji-week

![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/Fiji/2009-04-21-13h39m59.JPG_w89_cw89_ch67.jpg)
![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/Fiji/2009-04-21-13h49m13.JPG_h89_cw67_ch89.jpg)
![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/Fiji/2009-04-23-09h17m19.JPG_h89_cw67_ch89.jpg)
![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/Fiji/2009-04-23-10h29m11.JPG_w89_cw89_ch67.jpg)
![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/Fiji/2009-04-23-14h45m33.JPG_w89_cw89_ch67.jpg)
![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/Fiji/2009-04-23-14h45m46.JPG_w89_cw89_ch67.jpg)
![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/Fiji/2009-04-24-07h06m53.JPG_w89_cw89_ch67.jpg)

After the feeling of the fresh air reaching New-Zealand, it was
definitively time to head off for Fiji and its tropical climate. I
decided to go only for one week so I booked ahead the full week in one
of the scare kitesurfing places in Fiji: Safari Lodge. I looked at the
weather before leaving to see how the wind was suppose to be but it
didn’t look good. Maybe I should have gone the week before because it’s
been wind every day, with strong 20-25-30 knots...

I arrived at the airport and waited for Andy to pick me up, the driver
of the lodge. We waited for another flight to come from Sydney. 8.30pm
we finally left the airport towards the wharf in a black dark night. The
road was a bit chaotic due to the heavy rain and flood they got in
January but nothing compared to Nepal. It was impossible to get a clue
about how the landscape was. At the wharf we jumped in a dingy to cruise
to Nananu island.  

Even if it was already a bit late for Fiji time, guests were still in
the terrace drinking... a day without wind!

[![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/Fiji/2009-04-22-14h41m32.JPG_h480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/Fiji/2009-04-22-14h41m32.JPG.php)

The weather forecast was pretty flat for the next following days... No
wind on Sunday, neither Monday and Tuesday! One of the reason I chose
Safari lodge, is that in case of bad kite weather you can do a bunch of
other activities. Sunday I went with Anthony to do some sea-kayaking and
snorkeling on another part of the island. After noon we all gave a try
to waterskiing, wakeboarding or kneeboarding. It was great fun!

[![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/Fiji/2009-04-19-13h35m07.JPG_w480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/Fiji/2009-04-19-13h35m07.JPG.php)

On Monday we all went to a reef a few kilometers off-shore for either
snorkeling or on my side for spearfishing. What a great new activity I
discovered! We didn’t catch any fish for lunch though. Reason why I went
with Max & David again in the afternoon to the other side of the island
to give another try. We missed the big fishes we saw... hard sport! I
just couldn’t resist to shoot in a school of not so big fishes to give
it a try. It took me 4 shots though to catch one. Pretty brave, I put
the bloody and still alive fish in the pocket of my sorts as I still
needed one free hand to equalize my hear when diving, the other hand
being holding the speargun. Sharks? No... why should they come and have
a look at what I have in my pocket? Luckily I didn’t encounter any big
fish who was willing to taste my fish smell.

On Tuesday, we went again for a spearfishing trip on another reef back
of the island, but it was again an unlucky free dive. It’s pretty hard
to catch something with a speargun! But this time there wasn’t a single
fish to catch, only reef aquarium fishes.  

In the afternoon the weather started to look better with the wind
turning in the good direction for proper trade winds. I wanted to give a
try to this time record of the around island kayak paddling but it was
too choppy due to the wind. Not enough to kite though... Anthony was
optimistic and went out for a boat launch, but ended only to have a swim
back to the beach.

On Wednesday, I went with Max and another guess to go fishing in the
deep blue, hopefully to catch a walu or another good fish for diner. We
started with 3 lines in the water but the boat wasn’t wide enough and it
got messy really quickly. So Max gave up and let us fish... First time
for me! I’m the virgin, so I should be lucky ;-) I got first hold on a
fish but who manages to get away. A while after the other guest got a
barracuda, and I was a bit jealous. I want to catch something, come’on
fishes, get on that hook please! A short time after it was my turn to
get a barracuda. Pretty exciting to put on the line and wondering what
you have on the line!  

But still we didn’t have one of the good Fijian fish... It was just a
matter of time before I got a walu (Spanish mackerel) on the line which
gave me a harder time to get it back to the boat.  

I came back to the lodge with my 2 trophies in the hand before starting
to clean the fishes on the beach for an epic sushi session with the
walu. Eating fresh slices of walu dipped in soja sauce on a Fijian beach
by noon couldn’t be better, what a blast!

[![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/Fiji/2009-04-22-13h31m14.JPG_h480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/Fiji/2009-04-22-13h31m14.JPG.php)

[![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/Fiji/2009-04-22-13h52m24.JPG_w480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/Fiji/2009-04-22-13h52m24.JPG.php)

Anyway, in the afternoon while seating with Anthony and Malu on the deck
of the beach front bure, the sea started to look promising with more and
more small white breaks all around. The wind wasn’t really strong on the
beach though, so I was suspicious especially after Anthony’s swim the
day before. But it was my turn to give a crack and see if it was windy
enough. I started from the beach with a body drag to get away from the
trees and yeah, I got on the board and started to kite!!! The wind was
there, and much stronger out in the bay :-) Everyone went on the water
for a good first kite session in Fiji. I stopped only when it was almost
dark as I didn’t want to miss any minutes of kiting.

[![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/Fiji/2009-04-23-11h31m33.JPG_w480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/Fiji/2009-04-23-11h31m33.JPG.php)

Thursday was the big day of the week for me! Since I had to leave on
Friday morning to catch my next flights, it was the last chance to set a
new around the island paddling record. I went after breakfast at low
tide and with some wind, having my GPS watch on to keep my hopes up and
down. The previous record was 1h18 and the tour was around 13km. I had a
hard time to get round each point f the island as the low tide made
shallow water and longer paddling. The wind wasn’t really helping
neither. I started to doubt to make it in less time, but when I saw the
beach I realized I could at least make the same time or maybe 1 minute
less... Finally I made the same time, but with low tide and wind
compared to the previous one done at high tide without wind. So I’m the
new record man of the around the island paddling :-)  

I came back completely necked after the paddling, and everyone was
setting up the kites to go for a down wind ride... I just had enough
time to grab a drink and started to get my kite ready. We went out on a
sandy reef about a few kilometers of the beach and had an amazing
downwind session. I worked on my wake style jumps with the tips Max gave
me and had great fun! Everything ended very radically when I crashed my
kite trying another jump and ripped it... Oh shit! My Rhino 14m2 is
game-over! Anyway it was a good time to end the session and go for the
lunch, I was starving!  

Lunch over, we went for another downwind ride from the same reef. I
managed to get a few tricks done but I was pretty exhausted and my arms
couldn’t pull much more. I didn’t last long before going back to the
beach and crashed in a hammock to rest a bit. And then it was time to
pack my luggage and to prepare my broken kite for the day I would find a
sail fixer in Tahiti or Hawaii. For Tahiti, I will most certainly use
only my 9m2 which is a good way to get started with the unhooked jumps.

[![](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/cache/Fiji/2009-04-23-14h44m35.JPG_w480.jpg)](http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/Fiji/2009-04-23-14h44m35.JPG.php)

Friday morning, I left early for the airport with the feeling of a great
week in Fiji even though I haven’t been kiting every day. All the other
activities and people there gave me a wicked time on the island!

All the pictures about the week in Fiji:
<http://photos.shakeyourlife.com/Fiji/>


